# Product Options

An option is any feature of a product that can by selected by the buyer. Options
are defined in two parts: as *Option Templates* and *Option Values*. Here at the
individual product level, you can create option values and assign them to any
option templates that are available.

If no option templates are available, you must create them before you can assign
values. Go to *Site Menu* &rarr; *Commerce* &rarr; *Catalog* and click on the
*Option Templates* tab. For details on creating option templates, see 
[Catalog Options](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-1/catalog-options).

+$$$

It's important to understand exactly what is meant by the terms *Option
Template* and *Option Value*. Suppose a Vendor wants to sell a T-shirt that is
available in red, black, and yellow. In this situation, the option template
would be defined as *Color* while the option values would be defined as the
actual colors *Red*, *Black*, and *Yellow*.

$$$

Once your option templates are in place, return to the catalog and select the
product for which you want to create option values. Then navigate to the
*Options* tab, click on the *Add* button and check the box next to each option
template that you want to deploy. Close the pop-up window by clicking on the
*Add* button.


Now your option templates are deployed, but you need to assign values to them
before they can be used (option values can also be assigned at the catalog
level--again, see [Catalog Options]--but doing so will apply the same values to
every product that deploys the option). The *Options* portlet displays the
options templates that you just selected. Click on the *Values* button next to
one of the templates. In the pop-up that appears, enter the title and priority
for the value and hit save (the priority simply sets the order in which the
option values will be displayed on the product page--smallest numbers come
first). Then click the *Add* button and repeat the process for your next value.
Close the dialog box when all your values have been added.

Once your values are assigned, product options are ready to go. The next
section covers SKUs, or stock-keeping units.
