# Product Categories

Unless your catalog contains a very narrow range of merchandise, you will
probably want to organize your products into categories. Experienced @product@
users will be familiar with using category hierarchies to organize other kinds
of content; @commerce@ uses the same feature to organize products.

Once your products have been categorized, you can use the category hierarchy to
allow customers to easily navigate your store. Site administrators can also use
categories to filter the catalog, which can streamline some tasks.

## Creating Categories for Commerce

To learn how to create category hierarchies and the vocabularies that hold them,
go to the [Defining Categories for
Content](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-1/organizing-content-with-tags-and-categories#defining-categories-for-content)
section. In most cases, the category hierarchy organizing your catalog should be
contained in a single vocabulary.

Think carefully about setting up your category hierarchy and naming your
categories, considering not only an optimal way to organize the catalog, but
also good presentation. As you set up your web store, you're likely to
eventually use a *Commerce Category Navigation* portlet to help your customers
find what they want. This portlet uses your category names to create a menu
that directs customers exactly where they want to go.

![Figure 1: This navigation portlet displays a vocabulary's entire
category hierarchy.](../../../images/commerce-category-navigation.png)

While your category names will be displayed to customers, vocabularies will be
kept our of sight.

## New Category Features

In most respects, categories are unchanged by @commerce@. But there
are a few new features that are available when you edit a category.

![Figure 2: *Category Display Page*, *Products* and *Images* are all unique to
@commerce@.](../../../images/category-tab-bar.png)

**Category Display Page:** As an alternative to using a default category display
page--which uses the same format for every category--you can create a unique
page to display information about a single category. Create the page first and
then assign it to the category (edit the category, select the Category Display
Page tab, click *choose* and then select the page you just created). The new
page now overrides the default category page if one exists.

**Products:** You can view and edit a list of products that have been assigned
to a category. Editing this list allows you to quickly add or remove products
from the category, and is generally the best approach when creating a new
category. When creating new products--especially when they need to be assigned
to multiple existing categories--it is more efficient to categorize them from
the [catalog](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-1/categorization).

**Images:** You may want to upload images and associate them with a product
category. Of course if you wanted to, you could create a category display page,
add images to it, and call it a day. But for most use cases it's better practice
to associate images with the category directly. This gives you more flexibility
to display category content dynamically.

To access any of these features, navigate to the desired category and select
options (![options](../../../images/icon-options.png)) &rarr; *Edit*. Options
for each appear in the tab bar at the top of the page.
