 
## Options

Here you can specify customer-selectable options for your products. To create
a new option, click the *Add* button(![Add](../../../images/icon-add.png)) at
the top of the screen and fill in the fields on the right.

    -Title: specify the type of option customers will select, such as size or
    color.

    -Description: *I'm not sure where the text entered here would be displayed*

    -Field Type: Select from a number of different ways to display options to
    customers (drop-down menu, radio buttons, etc).

    -Facetable: *not sure what this is*

    -Required: Selecting this box forces customers to make a selection before 
adding
    items that deploy this option to their carts.

    -SKU Contributer: Making an option an SKU (stock-keeping-unit) contributor,
    gives each item that deploys the option a separate SKU for each of that 
option's
    values. This allows you to set different prices, shipping rates and other
    settings depending on what size, color or other selections a customer makes.

    -Key: A unique identifier for referring to this option programmatically. As 
this
    field is filled automatically, most users can safely leave it alone.

Once an option has been created, it is displayed in the list on the left side of
the screen. But it cannot be seen by customers unless it has values assigned to
it and has been deployed to a product.

There are two ways to assign values to a product. One is from the options tab in
*Site Menu* &rarr; *Commerce* &rarr; *Catalog*:

![Figure x: Click on the *Values* button to enter values for each 
option.](../../../images/options.png) 

Click on the *Values* button and when the pop-up box appears, click on the *Add*
button at the top of the *Option Values* section. Then in the *Option Value
Detail* section, fill in the *Title* and *Priority* fields and hit *Save*.

![Figure x: For example, the option *Color* would likely be assigned values with
titles such as *Black*, *White*, and *Brown*--or, for more adventurous users, 
*Azure*, *Fuchsia*, and *Sable*.](../../../images/option-values.png) 

The contents of the *Priority* field simply establish the order in which the
option values will be displayed on the product page (lowest number comes first).
The *Key* field, again, is auto-filled so most users can leave it alone.

$$$

The method of assigning values to options given on this page is Catalog-wide.
Once you've assigned a set of values to an option, you've created a template for
every product that subsequently deploys that option. If you're running a shoe
store, it may suit you to have a *Size* option that imposes the values 1, 2, 3,
etc. on all of your products. But what if you also want to sell T-shirts, which
would need *Size* values of small, medium and large? For that use case, you'll
want to look at assigning option values to products individually [insert link to
site that doesn't exist yet].

$$$
