# Product Categories

Products can be associated with each other in *Categories*. These associations
allow groups of products to be handled as single unit. For example, a product
category could be used to apply discounts or other offers to certain groups of
products, to assist buyers in finding certain types of products, or to promote
certain products to a specified user segment.

To organize products into categories, you must create the categories first and
then assign products to them.

## Creating Categories

To create vocabularies, categories and subcategories, go to To learn how to
create category hierarchies and the vocabularies that hold them, go to *Site
Menu* &rarr; *Content* &rarr; *Categories*. To learn more about the process, go
to the 
[Defining Categories for Content](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-1/organizing-content-with-tags-and-categories#defining-categories-for-content)
section.

+$$$

Note: Categories are designed to be nested into a hierarchy. While this allows
multiple categories to be handled as a single unit, it also makes it difficult
for administrators to see the entire vocabulary. To view all categories at
once, go to *Control Panel* &rarr; *Configuration* &rarr; *System Settings*
&rarr; *Assets* and select *Flattened Tree* from the drop-down menu in *Asset
Categories Web*. Then return to *Site Menu* &rarr; *Content* &rarr;
*Categories*.

$$$

## Adding Products to Categories

To add a product to one or more categories, go to the catalog and find open the
appropriate product's *Categorization* tab. Click on the *Select* button under
the label for the appropriate vocabulary, and the check the box next to each
category that applies.

## Category Features

**Category Display Page:** The category display page is a feature that creates a relationship between a category and a specified page. This relationship makes it easy to display and organize content or applications related to to that category, with any changes made to the category automatically reflected by the page. A typical use case might involve using the category display page to display category content for customers, but the feature could just as easily create a page for internal use.

To create a category display page, first create a page and then assign it to a category: find the category in *Site Menu* &rarr; *Content* &rarr; *Categories* and click ![Edit](../../../images/icon-options.png)


As an alternative to using a default category display
page--which uses the same format for every category--you can create a unique
page to display information about a single category. Create the page first and
then assign it to the category (edit the category, select the Category Display
Page tab, click *choose* and then select the page you just created). The new
page now overrides the default category page if one exists.

**Products:** You can view and edit a list of products that have been assigned
to a category. Editing this list allows you to quickly add or remove products
from the category, and is generally the best approach when creating a new
category. When creating new products--especially when they need to be assigned
to multiple existing categories--it is more efficient to categorize them from
the [catalog](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-1/categorization).

**Images:** You may want to upload images and associate them with a product
category. Of course if you wanted to, you could create a category display page,
add images to it, and call it a day. But for most use cases it's better practice
to associate images with the category directly. This gives you more flexibility
to display category content dynamically.

To access any of these features, navigate to the desired category and select
options (![options](../../../images/icon-options.png)) &rarr; *Edit*. Options
for each appear in the tab bar at the top of the page.
