# Shipping Methods

If your customers are like me, they'll always be happy with the cheapest
shipping you offer. Free shipping takes six weeks? Better plan ahead, 'cause
free shipping is free shipping.

Of course, most of your customers are probably not like me, and are willing to
pay a modest fee to receive their goods in a more timely fashion. At the same
time, you have your own needs to consider. Some products cost extra to ship due
to size or weight, and some may face complications when shipping across national
borders. To meet everyone's requirements, you probably need to set up your web
store with a number of different shipping options.

There are three ways to set up shipping options. You can use a fixed rate, which
allows you to use 

## Fixed Shipping Method

A fixed rate shipping method is the easiest to set up, but does not offer any
option to vary shipping costs by product automatically (although you can
manually set a shipping adjustment for select products in the catalog: see
[link]).

### Details

To enter a fixed shipping method, go to *Site Menu* &rarr; *Commerce* &rarr;
*Settings* and click on the *Shipping Methods* tab and the *Fixed*. This opens
the shipping methods *details* tab, which contains the following fields:

    - Name: The default name for the fixed shipping method is *Fixed*. This name
    cannot ordinarily be seen by customers, but depending on what customizations are in use
    it may make sense to change it.

    - Description: This is not used by default, but can be displayed to the
    product page or the checkout page via customization.

    - Image: an image uploaded to the field will be displayed in checkout page
    when the user selects shipping options.

The *Active* box must be checked for the fixed shipping method to be displayed
to customers. Enter a priority to determine the order in which shipping methods
will be displayed on a page.

### Shipping Options

Activating Fixed Shipping will have no effect if no Shipping options have been
defined. For most users, it makes sense to define a number of different options,
so that customers can choose between low-cost and high-speed shipping.

To create a new shipping option, first open the *Fixed* shipping method and then
click on the *Shipping Option* tab. Then fill out the dialog box that appears:

Figure 1:

Simply enter the name and the price.

## By Weight Shipping Method

Shipping by weight is a slightly different animal, requiring you to do a little
math. Wait, come back! It's really quite simple. Dynamic shipping allows you to
implement a formula that will automatically set shipping rates on the basis of
weight and price.

+$$$

When shipping by weight, you need every item in the catalog to specify its
weight.

### Shipping Options

## FedEx

## Restrictions

No matter what shipping methods you use, you have the option to apply
restrictions. A restriction will make a shipping method unavailable for
shipments to selected countries or regions. To apply a restriction, go to
a shipping method and click on the *Restrictions* tab. Then click the
[Add](../../images/add-icon.png) button and select whatever countries or regions
you want to restrict.
