# Taxes

Yeah, we know. Taxes are inevitable as death and a lot less interesting--we
wanted to skip this section too. Fortunately, applying a tax rate to your
products is a straightforward process.

## Tax Categories

The main purpose of tax categories is to allow for the sale of different
products that are be taxed differently. To apply any tax rate, you must have at
least one tax category. Once you have a category in place, you can assign a tax
rate or rates to the category, which must then be deployed to products in your
catalog.

![Tax settings are reached at the  *Taxes* tab at *Commerce* &rarr; *Settings*.](../../images/taxes.png)

To create a tax category, go to *Tax Categories* (see above) and click the
![Add](../../images/icon-add.png). Enter a name for the category, and if
necessary a description for site administrators. Then click *Save*.

## Fixed Rate

Fixed Rate taxes are simple, requiring only that you define a rate and assign it
to a tax category. Once that's done, the defined rate is applied to every
product that deploys its category.

![Rates are defined from *Taxes* &rarr; *Tax Methods*.](../../images/tax-methods.png)

To create a fixed tax rate, click on *Fixed* In the *Detail* section, you can
change the name of the rate and enter a more informative description if desired.
Check the *Percentage* box if you want the tax to be expressed as a percentage
of the subtotal rather than as a flat dollar amount. To use the tax rate, the
*Active* box must also be checked.

Then click on the *Tax Rates* tab, and create a new rate by clicking the
![Add](../../icon-add.png) button. Select a tax category and enter the rate. You
can create no more than one fixed tax rate for each tax category.

Now your tax rate is in place. To deploy it to a product, go to your catalog and
select a product. Then go to *configuration* &rarr; *Tax Categories* &rarr;
[Add](../../icon-add.png) and select the appropriate tax category.

## By Address

Fixed rate taxes are easy to set up, but sellers doing business across borders
will require a more sophisticated approach. When the By Address tax method is
used, users can assign multiple tax rates to a single category, each of which
applies to a different tax jurisdiction.

The process for setting up by address taxes is much like that for
