# Product Types

The contents of the catalog are displayed on the *Products* tab at *Site Menu*
&rarr; *Commerce* &rarr; *Catalog*. Here you can search, sort, and filter the
catalog. You can also add products manually by clicking on the *Add* button
(![Add](../../../../images/icon-add.png)) at the top-right of the screen and
then selecting the type of product you wish to create: simple, grouped or
virtual. The key difference between these types is in the way that catalog
handles them in inventory.

## Simple Products

A simple product is any product for which inventory is tracked. In practice,
this means that almost any physical item can be a simple product. When you
create simple product, the standard product tab bar is displayed, starting with
a *Details* tab where you can edit entries from the *Add Product* form.

## Grouped Products

A grouped product consists of two or more simple products from the catalog,
packaged together to be sold as a single item.  Grouped products are not tracked
in inventory--instead, the catalog tracks all of the simple products contained
in the group individually.

![Figure 1: The features that make a grouped product unique can be conveniently found in the *Grouped* tab.](../../../../images/grouped-product.png)

When a grouped product has been created, an extra tab--*Grouped*--is displayed
in its product tab bar. From the *Grouped* tab, click on the *Add* button in the
lower-right to select any number of simple products. Once the simple products
have been added to the group, they can be edited individually
(![options](../../../../images/icon-options.png) &rarr; *Edit*) to set
a quantity and a priority (priority indicates the order in which items will be
displayed--lower numbers come first).

## Virtual Products

A virtual product is a product for which there is no inventory tracking at all.
This may mean that the product is downloaded rather than shipped, as in the case
of a music file or an electronic publication. It is also useful for selling
services, warranties and other such goods.

A virtual product also has an extra tab--fittingly, *Virtual*--in its product
tab bar. The *Virtual* tab contains the following fields:

**URL/Select File**: If your virtual product is stored at a web address, enter
the URL here. Alternatively, click *Select* to upload a local file or select
one that was uploaded previously.

**Activation Status**: Select the stage in the order process at which the
product becomes available for download.

**Duration**: Enter the number of days after purchase in which customers will
have access to the file. A value of 0 sets no limit.

**Max Usages**: Set the number of times a customer can download the file.
A value of 0 sets no limit.

**Sample**: Upload or enter a URL for a sample file that will be available to
prospective buyers. The *Use Sample* box must be checked before customers will
see the sample.

**Terms of Use**: Either enter a Terms of Use document directly into the
integrated editor, or select a document previously uploaded to Web Content.

+$$$

The *Terms of Use* editor offers simple formatting options via the GUI, as well
as complete html functionality via the *Code View* button.

$$$

That's it for product types. The following sections cover the remaining items in
the product tab bar, starting with the basic information stored in the *Details*
tab.
